# Pizzafreak
A browser game about the world's greatest food

Pizzafreak is a memory game about building your customers' favorite pizza combinations. After learning everyone's favorite combos (randomly generated at the start of each game), you're then tasked with making those pizzas by clicking on the appropriate toppings from the Toppings Pan. Get enough in tip money, and you just might get hired by the restaurant!

I wrote Pizzafreak with Javascript and jQuery, HTML, and CSS over a few days in August 2020. Ultimately, I wanted to test my abilities in CSS styling, event listening and handling, straightforward and real-world DOM manipulation, and list/array comparisons. 

Going into the project, I expected that the most difficult parts would be comparing two lists for element equality (not necesserily in order) and moving objects around the DOM in a way that made sense and was UX-friendly. Fir the first problem, I initally tried to nest a for loop inside another loop, so that if an element from list A found a string match from list B, it would terminiate that loop. Otherwise, if it never met a TRUE condition, it would push itself to a third list, ultimately delivering a list of element that hadn't eer found a TRUE match from list B. Unfortunately, I could always seem to make it only push items it did find equality matches for... very frustrating! Eventually, I looked through jQ's documentation and discovered its .not() method, which compares two lists and returns non-matches. Perfect, ideal, and amazing!

For the second problem, I spent some time trying to find CSS attributes that would stay where I needed them. The biggest challenge was realizing I couldn't uase transform, margins, or flexing of any kind; because each element has a default "home" position and also four potential "pizza" positions (based on which order it's clicked in (and really, what index position it occupies in a constructed list)). A lot of tweaky, absolute/relative, left/top coding later, I had 10 "home" positions and 4 possible "pizza topping" positions.

I dummied up a window alert/console version of the game quickly, thinking a refactor to the DOM would be straightforward, but it was by far the most difficult aspect of the game. Many, many buttons would duplicate accidentally, or trigger an event early, or simply not respond when I had supposedly set liteners and handlers for them. Ultimately, a lot of console logging and the judicious removal and reappending of buttons on every function got me through this section... slowly. Again, jQ's excellent doumentation saved me. Many times, events would go through a certain loop for a third or fourth time and trigger the event that many times; for example, clicking on a topping on Day 3 would add that topping 3 times to my constructed topping list. I discovered jQ's .off() method, which works in the opposite direction of its .on() method. Again, a one-line fix ended hours of frustration.

I had a really wonderful time building this game. I learned quite a lot about things beyond just "fixing the code": how to really dig through documentation, how to rubber-duck my way into solutions - or, at least, approaches - how to take a step back, prioritze what needs to happen in the micro- and macro-scope of the project, and how to take breaks and refresh my brain.
